# Exercises sheet: Intro to OS


## OS structure

1. Compare System call, interrupt, and trap, give examples for each of them to be triggered
   System calls are a way for programs to interact with the OS. A program makes a system call when it sends a request to the OS' kernel
   Traps are an unintended request to system services, usually by some sort of fault. They result synchronously with the execution of a program.
   Interrupts are signals sent to the processor that interrupt the current thread's execution. It can be generate by both hardware and software.

3. Explain the concept of rings on Intel architecture. Compare to privilege level on MIPS architecture.
   The rings denote different privelege levels of proccesses running on a computer. On intel, ring 0 is where the kernel operates, ring 1-2 is where some drivers or VMs might run but is not used as much, ring 3 is where most "normal" processes are run.
   For MIPS, there is only the user mode and kernel mode, which is similar to ring 3 and ring 0 respectively. User mode allows access the CPU register, flat uniform virtual memory address space. Kernel allows access memory mapping hardware, special registers
5. Explain in your own words what is the main role of an operating system
   An operating system provides multiplexing for hardware resources and abstractions for resources.
6. How can we trigger a change in modes?
   Sleeping beauty through system call, trap, or interrupt or alarm clock.
7. What happens after a trap has been invoked.
   The cause of the trap is handled, and after the processor returns to its previous task
   <!--


1. An interrupt is a signal sent to the processor that interrupt (hence the name) the current execution thread. It can be generated by hardware (e.g. memory) or software. A trap is a software generated synchronous interrupts. It may be the result of a fault (e.g. division by zero). A system call is a way for programs to interact with the operating system. A computer program makes a system call when it makes a request to the operating system’s kernel. 

2. Intel architecture have 4 Rings (0 to 3). The most privileged ring is Ring 0 which contains the kernel and the most privileged is Ring 3 which contains userspace processes. Ring 1/2 are designed for things such as driver, but are in practice not used by operating systems such as Linux. The Ring restrict the execution of certain type of instructions and memory accesses. MIPS architecture only have two privilege levels.

3. A computer program that Multiplexes hardware resources and implements resource abstractions. It helps managing the hardware while hiding any complexity using abstractions.

4. Sleeping beauty approach: can be done through: trap, interrupts and system calls.
Alarm clock approach.

5. After handling the cause of the trap, the process returns to its previous activity.







